What Is Git?
It is a free, high-quality distributed version control system suitable for tracking modifications in source code in software development. It was originally created as an open-source system for coordinating tasks among programmers, but today it is widely used to track changes in any set of files. The key objectives of Git are as follows:

Speed and efficiency
Data integrity
Support for distributed and non-linear workflows



What Is GitHub?
It is a web-based Git repository. This hosting service has cloud-based storage. GitHub offers all distributed version control and source code management functionality of Git while adding its own features. It makes it easier to collaborate using Git. 

Additionally, GitHub repositories are open to the public. Developers worldwide can interact and contribute to one another’s code, modify or improve it, making GitHub a networking site for web professionals. The process of interaction and contribution is also called social coding.


1. for initializing git:-
	git init

2. tracked and untracked files:-
	git status

3. add untracked files:-
		git add .

4. for commit:-
		git commit -m "CommitMessage"
		
5. To restore Staged files:-
		git restore --staged file.txt

6. For Logs:- Which we commited we get that logs
	git log
	
7. to remove files:-
	rm -rf file.txt

8. To remove the old commits,Select the commit that is below the remmoving commit:-
	git reset gitcommitcode
	

-> stach area:-
1. git add.
2. git status
3. touch surnames.txt
4. git add.
5. git status
6. vim surnames.txt
7. git stash
8. git status
9. git log
10. git stash pop:- backstage area files comeout
11. git add.
12. git stash
13. git stash clear:- to remove
	
	
-> Github:=

1. Create a new Repository in git hub.
2. create a new folder/file.
3. right click &  git bash  there in folder
4. If need change the branch or not need (Master)
5. git add.
6. git status
7. git commit -m "commit msg"
8. git status
9. git remote add origin "gitlink of repo"
10. git push origin master/(branch name)

-> To create new Branch:-

1. git branch newbranchname
2. git checkout newbranchname
3. git commit

To exit from newbranchname
1. git checkout mainbranch
2. git commit

If the new branch is finalized we can merge it with main branch 
1. git merge newbranchname


-> To fork from project:-

1. Fork: to your account
2. from code area: get the clone link
3. git bash from the folder u want to run code
4. git clone "https://github......."
git remote -v :-Git repositories will have just one remote or many.(see my remote repository.)
5. git branch newbranchname
6. git checkout newbranchname
7. git add.
8. git status
9. git commit -m "commit msg"
10. git status
11. git push origin master/(branch name)

To add upstream link :-

1. git remote add upstream "https://github......."

-> To get the latest changes to ur remote branch
1. git checkout main
2. git remote add upstream "https://github......."
3. git fetch upstream
4. git checkout main
5. git merge upstream/branchname(i.e main)
6. git push origin main

To pull:- (They are used to fetch changes from a remote repository)
1. git fetch origin
2. git merge origin/<branch_name>
3. git pull origin <branch_name>
