Acceptance criteria:-

While user stories aim to describe what the user wants the system to do, the goal of acceptance criteria is to explain the conditions a specific user story must satisfy.

def:- Acceptance criteria (AC) are the conditions a software product must meet to be accepted by a user, a customer, or other systems. 

They are unique for each user story and define the feature behavior from the end-user’s perspective.

It's important to note that acceptance criteria describe what the end result should be, not the process of achieving it.

Well-written acceptance criteria help avoid unexpected results at the end of a development stage and ensure that all stakeholders and users are satisfied with what they get.

eg:-

As a restaurant customer, I want to reserve a table online, so I can ensure I have a place to eat at my preferred time.

Acceptance criteria: 
The system should show available times for reservations. 
After reservation, the customer should receive a confirmation.


Good acceptance criteria should possess specific qualities:-

Clarity: They should be straightforward and easy to understand for all team members, avoiding any confusion.

Conciseness: The criteria should communicate the necessary information without unnecessary detail.

Testability: Each criterion must be verifiable, allowing testers to clearly determine whether it has been met.

Result-oriented: The focus should be on delivering results that satisfy the customer, emphasizing the end benefit or value.

* Another important aspect regarding acceptance criteria is that they must be defined before the development team starts working on a particular user story. Otherwise, there’s a decent chance the deliverables won’t meet the needs and expectations of a client. 

* A Process You Can Use to Create Acceptance Criteria:-
Some of the opportunities for defining acceptance criteria include:

Discussions with customers or clients
Discussions with stakeholders
During product backlog refinement
During the scrum sprint planning event
In team brainstorming
After evaluating customer or end-user feedback
